> [!QUESTION] What are the 3 forms of citizenship?
> Legal status, Identity, Participation

# Legal Status

## Pathways to Citizenship

1. Born in Singapore but both parents are not Singaporeans
2. If one of the parents becomes a Singapore citizen
3. Marriage
	- Being married to a Singaporean citizen for at least 2 years
	- A Singaporean Permanent Resident for at least 2 years)
4. Naturalisation (Staying in Singapore for a number of years)
	- Ok we don't really do that anymore, but an alternative is
	- Registration
		- PR for at least 2 years
		- Employed in Singapore or have invested in Singapore

## Consitution of the Republic of Singapore

Citizens elect their leaders to represent them. These representatives form the government and are given the authority to make decisions on behalf of the citizens

Governments follow the constitution, which has the following functions:

### 1. Source of government power

- Sets out the functions and powers of the various organs of government, such as the Legislative, Executive and Judiciary

### 2. Limits government power

- power is separated between the Legislative, Executive and Judiciary
- prevents the concentration of power by a selected group

### 3. Protects the basic rights of its citizens

### 4. Protect minority rights

- Constitution sets up the Presidential Council for Minority Rights (PCMR)
- they examine all laws to ensure that they do not disadvantage any racial or religious communities

## Rights and Responsibilities of Citizens

- All citizens have responsibilities such as obeying the laws of the country and not discriminating against people of other races or religions. Singaporeans are also expected to contribute towards the continued peace and prosperity of the nation. In Singapore, there are strict, equal opportunities for citizens of all races and religions.
- While citizens value their rights, they should also consider the sensitives and safety of others when exercising their rights.
- Different countries emphasise different responsibilities. For example, in Singapore, men are required to serve national service in the military or civil forces and in the United States, citizens are expected to perform jury duty.
- If we exercise our rights responsibly, we can form a harmonious society. However, if we abuse our rights, it may cause tension, friction and sow discord in society.

# Identity

- common national identity
- citizens irrespective of their race or religion have a shared belief
- allows citizens to care for one another, regardless of their race or religious belief
- without this identity, citizens -> no pride -> negatively affect one's allegiance to their country

# Participation