# Definitions

## Corruption

- When computer data becomes changed or is made unreadable

## Data loss

- When information is destroyed and cannot be recovered

## Backup

- Copy of data that is made in case the original is damaged or lost

## Uninterrupted Power Supply

- Device that provides enough emergency power for a computer to properly shut down in case of a power failure

# Effects

- corrupted data is lost
	- if corrupted data is related to other data in the computer, then both the corrupted data and its related data may be lost
	- e.g. losing header data means that you will not be able to understand what the cell data means and both are lost
- if the corrupted data cannot be recovered or replaced, this also results in data loss.

# Causes

- occurs when computer data is made unusable by errors or alterations.
- happens when reading, writing or transmission of data

## Human error

 - **Storage device may be accidentally damaged during transport**
 - Multiple users working on the same file may accidentally overwrite each other's data

### Preventative measures

 - **Make regular backups of data.**
 - **Use adequate protection when transporting storage devices.**
 - Set up rules when collaborating with multiple users to prevent them from writing to the same file at the same time

## Power failure

- if power supply fails, data in the process of being written may become corrupted
- data stored in volatile memory but not yet written to a storage device will be lost

### Preventative measures

- Make regular backups of data.
- Set up a backup power supply or uninterruptible power supply (UPS) so storage devices can complete any write operations in case of a power failure.

## Hardware failure or damage

• All magnetic, optical and solid-state storage devices can fail, either due to overuse, manufacturing defects or age.

### Preventative measures

-   Make regular backups of data.
-   Check storage devices regularly and replace them immediately when signs of failure are detected.

## Malicious software or viruses

• Some malicious software (see section 7.3) may purposely damage and corrupt data as a way of attacking the computer.

### Preventative measures

-   Make regular backups of data.
-   Avoid opening email/chat attachments or files from unknown sources.
-   Install and configure a [[7.2 Unauthorised Access#Firewall]] to prevent them from spreading through the network.
- [[7.3 Threats to privacy and security#Install anti-spyware and anti-virus software]], as well as perform regular scans and updates.